remember the AMA format is much more
concise so I'm going to be answering the
questions one to two minutes no more we
have a lot and I'm hoping you guys are
going to submit a lot more again I'll be
prioritizing comments in the live feed
all right our first question is from
Aiden o how do you stay focused in this
world full of distractions I often find
myself procrastinating and watching
YouTube videos forever alright so this
really does come down to habits and
routines this is one of those things I
cannot stress enough if you haven't
built in mechanisms to deal with your
lesser nature you're forever gonna fall
prey to them some of it is identity some
of it is I'm the kind of person who
makes use of my time some of it is I'm
the kind of person that has goals and I
do that which moves me towards my goals
but then some of it is reinforcing that
belief with very strict rules what I'll
call Bright lines so some of my bright
lines are I go to bed at 9 pm period
second bright line I only have 10
minutes to get out of bed so I wake up
when I wake up I don't use an alarm but
once I realize I'm awake then I only
have 10 minutes to get out of bed as
long as I've had at least five hours so
look at the clock see what time it is I
have 10 minutes boom I'm up and I
emotionally Ward myself when I meet the
deadline and I emotionally punish myself
if I miss it and when I miss it by the
way it's usually by seconds it's not
like ever I'm just like [__] it and I
stay in bed for 20 minutes that would
not be a bright line so but hard and
fast 10 minutes emotionally reward
yourself or emotionally punish yourself
whether you do it or not and then just
having a compelling future it is so
critical that you have a compelling
future that there's actually something
that you're excited about and this makes
me think of Weekend Warriors for most
people no one has to tell you what to do
on the weekend you're very excited to do
it you get out of bed with some
enthusiasm there's something that you
want to do that day even if it's play
video games read watch a movie hang out
with your significant other whatever it
is there is something that you're
excited about and there is a way and I
won't answer it in this question but
there is a way to put at the center of
your life and all the things you're
doing to work and to build something to
put that thing that you enjoy at the
center of that so that you're generating
income off of something that you love
doing that is very very possible all
right next question is from Jeff
is my guess at how you say his last name
how do you develop cultivate the beauty
and rage concept all right so what is
the actual process of Fanning the Flames
of anything it starts with Focus so if
you know that you want to build Beauty
and rage in something and you know that
you want to spend 80 percent of your
time in Beauty and so what is beauty
Beauty are the things that are wonderful
they not only put you in a good mood and
help you and hopefully put others in a
good mood and help them and and really
do something positive and empowering
um there are also the things that are
built on excitement it's you're looking
forward to it you're moving towards it
you're not running away from anything
the rage on the other hand is
the darkness also known as it is the
thing that makes you angry it's the
people that hate you it's wanting to
prove somebody wrong it's coming from
essentially a negative place it's coming
from I won't let these people see me
fail right that is
at times when done in the right balance
a very powerful motivator and so to
overlook that as a mistake but how you
cultivate them is once you've identified
something that let's say is on the
beauty side that you really fan the
flames and you really
lean into why you're grateful for that
what it is about that that's wonderful
how you think you're going to help
people that reinforcing in yourself I am
the kind of person that wants to help
people that goes out of my way to do
nice things for other people that I'm
going to build a business that has
something at the center of it that is
World positive that isn't something
that's taking away from people you
literally say those things you say them
to other people you rally people around
those Notions you talk about them you
let yourself get excited and then this
is the hard part you reward yourself for
being the kind of person that gets
excited about something so positive okay
it's a self-reinforcing loop that just
starts with saying I think this is a
good thing I think it's a beautiful
thing it's something that I'm excited
about it's something I want to move
towards and make happen and it's good
it's good for me it's good for other
people it's positive it's uplifting and
I feel good about the fact and you
literally by saying it you're
reinforcing that notion in your head I
feel good about it on the dark side when
somebody slights me when I realize that
they actively want for my downfall all
they maybe do me the justice of just
telling me to my face that they think
that I'm gonna fail that I'll hold on to
that and I will at strategic moments
never to exceed 20 of my time I will
focus on that now we'll focus on the
fact that that person thinks I'm gonna
fail I will focus on the fact that I
absolutely [__] refuse to let that
happen and I will stare at it nakedly
and I will think about how it would feel
to fail
what that would be like to know that
that person believes I'm gonna fail and
then I did
and in that reaction to that I'll start
moving forward with ferocity and it is
actually letting yourself feel angry and
if you need to Furrow your brow tighten
your muscles stand up strike a bold
posture really put yourself in an
aggressive dominant position when you're
in the 20 so that you feel the power
because the only point of Dipping into
the rage is to have the anger that's
needed to withstand suffering and to
attack it and to go after it and to make
it your enemy and that's why if you
didn't hear in all of those words how
dangerous it would be to spend more than
20 percent of your time there then you
run the risk of letting that overtake
you because thinking like that being in
that aggressive stance is a major
turnoff to people it's corrosive
internally over the long run all right
so the next question comes from Mario I
am an entrepreneur in the design and
marketing business this year I decided
to stop working based on the agency
model and promote myself this will also
give me more time to focus on a startup
project so I registered my websites and
started promoting my personal brand to
help this I created a series of videos
podcasts where I interview other
creatives around the world I talk to
Marvel illustrators old school animators
artists designers Etc I'm currently in
Brazil finishing the last video so I can
start promoting them I know I have the
skills and the experience I'm curious
about how should I transition from a
brand to my own name should I focus on a
specific Niche or Market everything I
can do how did you manage to create such
a strong personal brand in parallel to
your business we all do a lot of things
but I don't want to create a weak brand
that has no Focus for example when you
see someone promoting himself as an
entrepreneur or a health Advocate
photographer and writer sometimes it's
just too much okay so I totally agree
with you I think I haven't read Ryan
holiday's book perennial seller but
someone highlighted part of it and put
it on Instagram it's another reason why
I love Instagram
if you're following the right people you
can really get good stuff and in the
quote that they posted on their
Instagram is a highlighted section of
the book and it said the thing that most
makes people fail to create something
that will last is that they try to do
multiple disparate things at the same
time so if you look at everything that
we're doing at impact Theory all of it
adds up to the exact same thing our
mission is to pull people out of the
Matrix and so everything that we do has
got to feed into that ethos so whether
that is this content where I'm just
laying it out there's no real narrative
to it it is just the direct ideology or
whether it's a show looking at pop
culture and the things you can learn
from pop culture coming soon or it's
impact Theory the interview show or just
the traditional narrative content where
it is straight up you're going to watch
a movie a TV show you're reading a comic
book
all of that stuff all has to exist to
pull people out of the Matrix it all has
to be empowering content it all has to
give you the same
emotion for the brand so it doesn't have
to sell the same exact product but you
need to immediately understand how all
of those products are connected so yes
being an entrepreneur and health
Advocate no problem there I will tell
you right now that those are two areas
that you're going to see me talk about
but both of them are truly necessary for
getting people out of the Matrix so
there is an inextricable link between
the mind and the body you have to
understand them both to cognitively
optimize you have to optimize your
health in order to actually get your
mind in the state where you truly can
break free of all your limiting beliefs
so
that whether people see that as the same
or not once you watch enough content
you'll get why that's a necessary piece
of it so it being necessary is where it
becomes interesting so for instance if
you want to talk about being an
entrepreneur and a health Advocate your
photography better center around those
two worlds because if it's just random
photography then that's where it gets
much less interesting because now it's
it's just there's no unifying theme for
the audience okay next question is from
Felipe
I wrote a long while ago and told you I
was a scientist who writes fiction on
the side I have since quit my job as a
scientist because I realized I was not
100 passionate about it and I didn't
want to do that for the rest of my life
plus I was not having a lifestyle I
enjoyed now I have to figure out what I
want to do next since I am not in a
position where I can live off of my
writing I have savings that will allow
me to pursue the other interests for
about a year okay so what's my advice
what's the best strategy
if you have a year and you know exactly
what you're trying to accomplish then
what I would try to do is figure out
what is the fastest thing that you can
sell because basically you've got a year
to begin generating Revenue that's
actually a really long time so you have
to get a realistic picture of what can
you say what is the Delta right so your
writing makes you X and leaves you y
amount of time how much
can you monetize that remaining amount
of time and what is the gap between what
you're earning as a writer and what you
need to live on so that's really the
only Gap that you have to cover then I
would try to leverage the infrastructure
that is already there to help you get
jobs as a writer so without knowing
exactly what you want your writing to be
let's pretend for a second that it's
something that other people value as
well so if you want to write all the
time a great way to supplement that
would be say
creative copy or something like that to
find an ad agency that's writing really
interesting copy maybe narrative focused
using the or leveraging the technology
of something like upwork where you can
work from wherever on whatever hours you
want you're still writing but you're
able to monetize that now I'll tell you
right now you can definitely make a
full-time living as a freelance writer
so it just comes down to when you say
you can't make a living off your writing
how you're defining the writing what
writing you'd be willing to take for
work and how familiar you are with
freelancing and making that work and if
you have a science background Jesus you
could be a science writer which they can
charge an arm and a leg so even if you
only made part of your day doing the
science writing and the other part you
tried to spend maybe writing for an ad
agency or something like that that let
you dive more deeply into the creative
you ought to very rapidly be able to
build out a portfolio of clients
assuming you can actually write well and
that is the hard thing to face but I'll
just be really arrogant for a second it
would be very easy for me to make north
of a hundred thousand dollars maybe
significantly more than that just as a
copywriter
so and that's just using upwork by the
way I could do that from Bali Bora Bora
Tahiti like wherever so understanding
the tools and the technology that's
already out there that's got the
infrastructure for something like this
where you have a year and you need to
build up that client base while you
leverage your savings all right so
that's my advice
um we're getting some questions coming
in amazing amazing so here we go
question from Brian Jacobson how much do
you think your internal dialogue has to
do with your anxiety depression in the
beginning I think that it played a huge
role and that's how the neurons began to
fire together and wire together
um you just but it's a little more
Insidious than just the dialogue because
my dialogue was possible but I would
paint scenarios of something going wrong
I would imagine like and a lot of times
it was just what-if scenarios like I was
thinking through like to protect myself
so you know what if you go out there and
you don't remember what you were going
to say like how would you deal with that
and how would you deal with it if like
the audience started booing well now
what I'm thinking about out is the
audience's booing and the I've forgotten
what I'm going to say and so all of the
things that I'm thinking through are
negative scenarios my brain begins to
think about them and then some part of
your brain goes Jesus I never even
thought of that and so that gets into a
pretty dicey Arena so you need to make
sure that the things that you're
obsessing about are things going
positive that you're actually putting in
all the work thinking about that today
that anytime I'm going to do something
like this I don't need the questions
ahead of time I don't need to prepare
and the reason is my entire life is the
preparation for these things so there's
not going to be any last minute cramming
that I could do that would make even
like a tiny bit of difference between
what I already know and have spent the
last you know 20 30 years accumulating
that knowledge making the unique
connections talking to people about it
really establishing it is something that
I I understand is an actual world view
so when you
obsess about something and don't prepare
for the negative stuff you're not
setting yourself up for failure that
either happened or didn't happen based
on your preparation going into whatever
you're going to do so thinking about all
the ways things could go wrong thinking
about all the potential problems and
ways you would deal with them just
focuses you on the problem and you get
what you focus on so if you focus on
forgetting you're going to forget if you
focus on things going badly your things
are going to go badly you've got to be
able to feel yourself confidence all
right next question is from Thomas
Enriquez and he says can I come work for
you if I get Jay-Z in contact with you
yes depends on how you define work
that's the only catch
um but man if you let me Define that
then absolutely but that would be
amazing and so if you're serious we
should definitely talk all right next
question comes from Mike Bryant what
happens when technological unemployment
affects 90 of humanity if we let that
happen and we haven't put in place
things like basic Universal income we're
[__] and there's just no long and
short of that we have to find a way to
create a thriving middle class even if
that's with universal basic income so I
am not an expert on this so I will leave
it at that but that is a problem that
absolutely without question must be
solved hopefully by people who know a
lot more about it than I do next
question is from KJ norlander did Noah
Galloway change your perspective on
having kids at all in the future no
um and I'm so hope that chase will slack
me a follow-up to that as to what they
thought would do that so the thing to
remember about me and kids is I'm well
aware that they are transformative
emotionally that they are magical little
creatures who change your perspective on
everything who when you are on your
deathbed you will think thank God I have
these children I would be so profoundly
alone right now if I didn't have them
and the heartache and loss that one
would
feel at merely imagining not having
children should if they did have
children at that point I bet is very
very profound and I bet once you have
kids and the chemical change that takes
place you look at people that don't have
kids and you think if you would just
listen if you would just understand how
beautiful and transformative and
Powerful it is you would do it
immediately
and to that I say
that is neurochemical change and if you
study the levels of happiness of people
who have children almost universally
they are lower all the way until the
child leaves and they don't return to
normal until after the child leaves so
from a purely objective statistical
fact perspective about momentary
happiness children ruin it it is as far
as I can tell the only impossible job
like doing it right wow is a crap shoot
it is it is truly one of the most noble
things any human being can do and I am
so grateful obviously that people do it
and that it's a beautiful experience and
that from the inside of it even though
your happiness levels go down the sort
of deep fulfillment goes up I'm very
glad that people experience that I get
that in other ways in my life building
things is what sets me on fire
but I'm I'm told that we have some
follow-up uh wouldn't it be interesting
to see what kind of role model you would
be for a child
um a it would be B I was a role model
for a child and spent eight years as
essentially a big brother I call it a
big brother but it wasn't officially
part of that program but I worked with
him for eight years and it was magical
and transformative and has continued to
echo through my life so when I say I get
it I get what it's like to have a child
look to you like
um your salvation that you're offering
them a better life than they have
anywhere else I can't tell you how many
times Rashaan asked to come live with me
and
um yeah so I get it and and I'm saying
it from a place of actually
understanding it so I and I fully
recognize that understanding
intellectually is different than feeling
it emotionally and he wasn't actually my
child and so I'm well aware of that and
I was very young but nonetheless I had
enough of a taste to be able to
understand that I desperately
desperately want kids
the only thing I want more than kids
is to not have kids so it isn't me going
oh man having kids sounds like it sucks
having kids sounds like it would be
amazing but it also doesn't suit what
I'm trying to do with my life and so
therefore not having kids edges it out
and then also emotionally I exist in a
place where my life is literally my
dream I have constructed it Brick by
Brick to be exactly what I wanted to be
on a daily basis so I don't have that
that sense of like man I could really
fill this void with something and I have
dogs
um okay enough on that next question
comes from Jeremy Thompson have have a
great idea but barely make it paycheck
to paycheck how do I start to plan and
bridge the gap towards execution is
there a way to access funding and would
you recommend it for a first-time
entrepreneur
um
I would say that I absolutely have no
reservations if you can raise money
raise money absolutely you will learn a
ton in that but only raise money if you
plan to sell the company and you're very
very happy listening to somebody else
who knows a lot more about what they're
doing so if you think of it as I've got
this idea for a product and I
essentially want to go to business
school raise money and raise money from
a firm that wants to be actively
involved and you should then want them
to be actively involved and then work
very closely with them to learn about
how to do a business so the next one
that you could have more control but do
not raise money if you want to be
autonomous you want control it will be a
nightmare and also their model is
between three and seven years they
expect you to sell sell or IPO I guess
technically you could do that
but you're going to like the odds of you
losing control are almost 100 so if you
can go into it looking at it like
business school I think it's great
otherwise do the side hustle thing build
it on the side just clock a lot of
ridiculous hours go without a lot of
sleep build this thing up learn along
the way but you can retain control that
way and if your product is real and
people are excited about it in this day
and age of social media and the ability
to build communities you really can get
it off the ground far enough to start to
get people's attention you'd have a lot
more leverage when you go to raise money
if you decide to go down that path
alternatively you could grow a little
more slowly over time and do it all
yourself so that there's no one right
answer but there's also no excuses right
so making it paycheck to paycheck is you
know so many people live there and at
some point you just have to be so fed up
with that that you don't accept it
anymore and that you make radical change
in your life whatever that looks like
all right next question is from
medardus Jew hey Tom uh do you think the
dark side is the only way to conquer
doubts and fears thanks no I do not
think that so the dark side has a very
specific application it's it is a tiny
minority of your time so 80 of all your
problems 80 of every encounter that you
have eighty percent of the time you have
to look inward all of it eighty percent
of the time you should be coming up with
the beautiful things the things you're
moving towards the things you're
grateful for the awesome stuff in your
life all the great things you know will
come out of this if you can just get
your company across the Finish Line help
your children
um volunteer your time be a politician
like whatever your thing is it doesn't
have to be an entrepreneur
eighty percent of all of those problems
will be solved with the Beautiful Things
the rage comes in I find for me the rage
is about those times where I am I'm just
spent I don't have any more and I
maybe I've failed and I'm just
embarrassed and I'm tired and I don't
want to keep going or I'm scared and
it's like [__] am I actually going to be
able to pull this off at those moments
when the beautiful things are in the
throes of failing me that's when I think
about the people who want me to fail
and that for me I'm just I don't
tolerate that I don't accept that I'm
going to give them what they want I
don't accept that that would feel like
so much [__] so because I'm absolutely
unwilling to tolerate that in myself
that kicks me in the ass and gets me
going again but I know better than to
spend a lot of time there but I leverage
that that is Nature's gift it is how
you're able to endure more suffering
anger anger allows you to endure more
suffering they've done studies on this
this isn't me just saying like in a
woo-woo way literally anger allows you
to endure more suffering so when the
only answers suffer more keep going
that's when I leverage anger only after
I've tried all the beautiful things and
they continue to fail me
anger will make you take action just
true the truth is hitting your career
goals is not easy you have to be willing
to go the extra mile to stand out and do
hard things better than anybody else but
there are 10 steps I want to take you
through that will 100x your efficiency
so you can crush your goals and get back
more time into your day you'll not only
get control of your time you'll learn
how to use that momentum to take on your
next big goal to help you do this I've
created a list of the 10 most impactful
things that any High achiever needs to
dominate and you can download it for
free by clicking the link in today's
description alright my friend back to
today's episode okay
um next question comes from Siddharth
Kapoor I'm good at communicating and
arguing law can be a good career option
for me but I am late for it which other
careers can be good for me
I'm late for it I'm assuming that means
you think you're too old and I would say
that's a bad reason not to do something
so I would say the reason you should
either do or not do it is whether you
think that you will fall in love with it
whether it will really be a deep passion
for you whether it will make you come
alive and whether or not it's the thing
that you would love doing every day even
if you were failing if that's law then
get into it I will say that lawyers have
the highest rate of depression and may I
may be wrong about this but may also
have the highest rate of suicide that
part I could be making up the depression
thing I'm sure about
um because being a lawyer you have to be
negative you have to look at all the
things that could go wrong and like I
was saying before when you obsessively
focus on all the things that could go
wrong you're just living in negative
land so maybe weigh that and I wouldn't
worry about
um
whether or not you're too late for that
so the last part what other careers
could be good for you being persuasive
and communicating well works everywhere
so there literally isn't uh an arena
where even if you're a solo writer being
able to write persuasive arguments is
still monetizable so I would say that
that's Universal applies everywhere all
right next question from Aaron Elias
what is your take on energy upgrades and
waves sweeping the Earth what is your
take on ascension I have no idea I've
never heard those words put together in
that fashion before I fear I'm going to
fail you entirely I have absolutely
nothing but ignorance on this topic
forgive me all right next up Carolina
Wilk Tom what do you think about Dr John
D Martini's teachings
two in a row totally ignorant I have no
idea who Dr John D Martini is forgive me
uh next question Jessica terrazia how do
you find your audience once you have a
passion I want to speak but I can't help
everyone at once I was told I need to
find my audience did you do this and did
you find Value in this all right let's
deconstruct this a bit so
in the world of social media the easiest
way to begin to build your audience and
so there's a difference between social
media and speaking with speaking you
need to put together a reel that shows
how you can speak you need to pick a
topic that you're very good at that have
speaking opportunities and then start
small start with local groups get up and
speak make sure you're recording
yourself so that you get this reel of
people make sure you post it on your own
channel so people can see it and that
you're showing up for certain keywords
so when people are searching for that
they're going to see you partner up with
other people especially and this is easy
if you're in the world of motivation if
you're in the world of motivation then
there are all kinds of accounts that are
desperately looking for content and if
you're able to speak very powerfully
that you could start sending them your
content getting a partnership going with
them so that you're able to get them
pushing you out maybe they have a small
audience to start but let's say if they
only have a thousand people that's a
thousand people that otherwise wouldn't
have seen you so building those
relationships going on being valuable to
their Community just building this up
Brick by Brick getting more and more
people exposed to your ideas create a
high value add social accounts whether
that's Twitter whether that's Instagram
Facebook all of it do Facebook lives
maybe only a few people show up in the
beginning but if you're adding value to
their life they're going to tell
somebody about it so this all comes down
to how good are your talks how much
value do they really add to people and
if it adds a lot of value then you'll
find that people just keep coming back
and and if you're not growing here's the
hard reality
if you're not growing you're not adding
enough value so one of the most powerful
things that I learned from Reading
Disney's biography was that every time
the company wasn't where he wanted it to
be he refocused on making the product
better the product better the product
better it's not about making the
marketing better marketing better
marketing better it's about really
really focusing on the product and in
this case the speech is your product so
making sure that you get your product
great and somebody that's done a really
good job of talking about that process
is Lewis Howes so I would go hit him up
I would check out what he's done what he
did his whole thing with going to
Toastmasters and starting out like he
was reading off sheet of papers hands
were trembling he couldn't even look up
from the piece of paper and then you
know however many months or year later
he's getting paid to speak so putting in
the Reps getting better practicing and
then also in a group like that you're
meeting other speakers who may be
getting gigs and they may be asked to do
a gig that they don't want to do but
then they think of you and so they pass
it on to you I've gotten a lot of my
speaking work that way it's just word of
mouth so
get out there get after it uh next
question comes from cage hits
cage hits really cage hits
that's amazing that's so amazing I'm
tempted to think it's a screen name but
cage it says you say you are building
this community uh for later down the
road to build the studio what skills
would you recommend we cultivate now in
order to provide you with value down the
road
questions like these make me want to
like cuddle the camera or the microphone
or something like you can't imagine what
it means to me and everyone else here
when you ask a question like that dude
anybody that says social media
is like destroying the fabric of society
they've built the wrong Community can we
just agree on that
thank you just first of all for asking
that question that's so amazing
um I will say this
pursue your truest and best life
whatever makes you come alive whether it
can be useful to us or not like don't
worry about that we're gonna be here we
are going to remain providing content
for free uh so
don't think you have to help us to be an
amazing contributor to this community
just asking that question is [__]
amazing and I'm so grateful for it the
skill set that we will need the ones
that we're really focused on now we need
writers and artists that's a really
really big deal for us so writers and
artists we're building out contests
where hopefully partnering up with
I guess I won't say until it's real
we're partnering up with a very large
company that is just amazing at
attracting writing Talent very excited
about that I really really hope we close
that
um but yeah we're starting right now on
comics and so we need writers for Comics
we need artists for Comics ultimately
we'll also be putting together so the
whole notion of impact house is meant to
get creatives here whether screenwriters
whether traditional authors whether
comic book writers and artists bringing
people together to meet each other to
bounce ideas to get things going we'll
present people with ideas that we're
trying to get into production so if
somebody is gradual or not graduating
gravitating towards that and they want
to latch on to one of those projects and
and go into our development cycle then
that's also something so I guess watch
will be making announcements around that
you can also ping us at connect one of
the contracts that I'm working on now is
our submission thing so you guys can
submit it know exactly what your rights
are who retains what all that good stuff
uh so but anyway to the first part I'll
just reinforce that live the life that
makes you feel most alive and if that
aligns with us that's really really
amazing but you can still be a really
vibrant contributor to this community
without that
um okay next question Davis sarret how
besides speaking for free a lot do you
build a career and
and a following as a speaker how do you
self-publish your book effectively
all right those are two very different
questions
um one I'll let me just go through them
all right so how do you build a career
and a following as a speaker so you
you're sort of discounting the one thing
that I would say is the right answer and
that is speak for free a lot and the
reason that you're going to be doing
that is just like interning you're going
to be getting your name out there you're
going to deliver value there's no
barrier to entry to bringing you on
other than they need to vet to make sure
that you can actually do it but if you
can do it you're getting what you want
it's not the money the money's not what
you're after the money or sorry the the
short term money is not what you're
after the long-term money only comes if
you're able to build a reputation and
really improve as a speaker get out
there and absolutely crush it right so
don't lose out on the opportunity to
make a hundred thousand dollars a speech
later because you want five thousand
dollars of speech now okay way better to
say you know what I am going to do this
one for free you know what my normal fee
is ten thousand dollars a speech but
actually I'm I'm gonna waive this one
and I'm gonna do it for for free you can
even do that so that you're letting it
be known that like that's your normal
fee but your job if you're trying to
build a following especially you've got
to get out and do it it's literally
shaking hands kissing babies it's
letting people know you're there to be
of service to them and that you're not
just trying to be a rock star if you
Swagger out on the stage do your thing
drop the mic and then peace the [__] out
like you're not gonna build a following
so in the beginning like dude let me
tell you when like I'm going tonight if
you're in the LA area 7 P.M downtown L.A
Boom Town baby look it up meet and greet
and despite the fact that I have a 9 pm
bedtime I will stay there and answer
every question that people have period
period why because I want you guys to
know that I'm serving you and I want to
do that because ultimately I'm going to
need your help I'm going to need your
support as we're building the studio and
there are going to be things that
hopefully I can create that are valuable
enough to you
um that you would rather have that thing
than the money but the only way that
you're going to feel that is if you
recognize what this company really
stands for who I really am as a person
um that's that's my silver bullet and so
we've built what I think is one of the
most rapidly growing
organic audiences and take organic
lightly we do a lot of cool marketing
[__] some of which we throw money at but
it's all real people it's not like bot
farms in India or anything so we've got
to be one of the fastest growing and the
reason for that is this company every
human being that touches any aspect of
this company is just dripping a desire
to help so as long as people feel that
and you're willing to go the extra mile
I think you can really build something
special all right next question
and I did fail you on the the
self-publishing thing but um I went a
little long on the first part and I
don't have I've never self-published the
book before so I'd just be um giving you
sort of best practices of marketing
anyway uh question from David Daly if
humans are truly malleable and capable
of achieving anything why must we put in
thousands of hours to master a skill why
can't humans Master skills much more
rapidly than this all right this is
actually a fascinating part of
um
Evolution and the trade-offs that we
have done so if you look at other
animals take ants for instance there's a
certain type of ant to forget their name
but they can build as a unit complex
structures they can pick things up they
can hang from things they create shapes
they turn into Towers it's insanity and
all of that is pre-programmed nobody
teaches them anything from the drop the
moment they come out they're ready to go
they can build these structures it's all
just instincts it's all built in now
when you build stuff in what you're
trading off is flexibility so the reason
that it takes so much time and energy is
because we have said you know what don't
pre-build much in but instead be a
canvas that can respond aggressively to
its environment that you can go in
virtually any direction that you need to
go in and that flexibility giving us the
opportunity to thrive in Crazy
environments to specialize in something
over time to change our specialization
to to adapt to changes dramatic changes
in the climate that we otherwise would
fall prey to that's why we've survived
long enough to become the apex predator
things that wiped out other people
didn't wipe us out because we could
adapt so it's a trade-off for maybe
complexity of skill set from day one and
flexibility of skill set over the long
run so that is why all right next up
from Cameron RN any new books you would
add to your 25 must release I I uh is
grit on there yet
we need to add grit so I'll just tell
you grit 100
um some of the other books are more sort
of fetishy for me like homodeus rocked
my world but I wouldn't put it on the 25
the 25 aren't just the best books I've
read They're the most foundational to
building an empowering mindset and so
there are many many many amazing books
that I'm tempted to just keep making
that list longer and longer which is why
we did the knowledge Trail but right now
I would say with the exception of grit
which does need to be on the list I
don't have anything that I think is
foundational enough uh to add but I
think we've listed something roughly
like the last Chase last hundred books
I've read
something like that so take a look at
that moving excuse me moving forward
we're going to be posting my notes that
I take on the book uh bear with me I
take the notes for me so I don't write
them uh worried about whether they'll
make sense to you sorry uh it's very
selfish I know but we thought people
might enjoy seeing them anyway so we'll
be doing that moving forward
all right uh Corinne Davis how do you
differentiate between when it's time to
Pivot or dig in alright so this is the
grit or quit question which I find
really interesting and Eric Barker
covers this in his book barking up the
wrong tree and in that he talks about
whoop
w-o-o-p and whoop is the device you're
going to use to figure out whether you
like something enough to push on or
whether it's something that you should
quit so it goes like this the W is for
wish what is your wish what do you want
to make come true O is for obstacles so
what is the
um sorry oh the first o is an obstacle
it is
oh God is it objective I'm gonna say it
is somebody's gonna need to look this up
I'm failing myself right now
um objective like how do you actually
plan to get there what is the path to
that then the next one so basically
making your wish concrete so that's the
important uh part even if I'm not
getting the right word the second o is
um
obstacle wow so what is the obstacle
that you're gonna have to overcome in
order to get there and then the last the
p is you're looking this up by any
chance
plan all right so I think I need to look
these up I should have fast access to
this oh god let's see how fast we can
get there because I've just muddled this
one up I'm too terrified or horrified
with myself
um
so wish outcome obstacle plan all right
so wish the outcome so making it
specific and concrete so the wish I want
to be rich one day the outcome I want to
be rich by Building A nutrition company
okay obstacle what's going to stop me uh
there's 1600 protein bars on the market
so how we differentiate ourselves we're
going to have to become our own
manufacturers create something new and
Market it in a whole different way plan
okay how do we actually take over social
media what is a thousand screaming fans
look like and you just back into that
you've all heard me I assume at this
point heard how I backed into why we're
creating a studio and all that so I
won't do that it's also very long but
that's whoop all right so if when you do
your whoop you sit back and go man I'm
ready to go after this is amazing I'm so
glad I did it I now have my plan I know
exactly what I'm trying to do
that's something that you should pursue
you should grid it out and keep going
even if it's getting hard if when you
lay out the plan you're like dear God
that sounds exhausting I I'm not sure I
want to do that then that's something
that you should quit and move on to
something else all right
found that pretty fast Chase thank you
for your help
um next one Chris Berry do you think
glyphosate is behind a lot of the health
problems associated with the microbiome
being damaged all right so this is one
of those where I'm early enough in my
research that I know the word glyphosate
but I don't remember what it means so
I'm going to look it up really fast and
then I will tell you what I think is
behind glyphosate uh
oh the pesticide so this is that thing
yeah that everybody is
um super freaked out over I think it's
in Roundup
um and people just are not happy about
this [__] uh I don't know I think that
environmental toxins is part of it and
there's this whole concept called pops
persistent
something pollutants and I don't
remember what the O stands for I'm
really I'm not doing well with my
acronyms today but persistent pollutants
the exposure that we get BPA is one that
people talk about a lot I think that
you're probably getting that's one of
the things that either disrupts your
endocrine system disrupts the microbiome
itself one thing that I'm I'm testing
like if you're really paying attention
my Snapple is now
see-through and the reason that I do
see-through Snapple now I'm cutting it
about two-thirds water and a third
Snapple is I want to see if I notice any
difference from
significantly reducing and maybe
ultimately completely cutting out all
artificial sweeteners from my diet I
don't want to see my for so long just
relied on the fact that I don't feel any
difference that that doesn't mean that
I'm not edging towards catastrophe every
day so I'm going to try it and give it a
real legitimate shot let's call it 60 to
90 days with right now I'll commit to
with highly minimized amounts of
artificial sweeteners
I won't go all the way because there's
some things in my diet that
God to be hard to get the level of fat
in my diet that I want in a pleasurable
manner without artificial sweeteners and
since I'm not convinced yet the
artificial sweeteners disrupt things as
much as they might so anyway
um glyphosate it's bad clearly we should
get it out as fast as we can any toxins
that cause any sort of disruption in the
body they all stack so I doubt the
glyphosate is like the end-all be-all
but I bet it ain't helping so yeah
that's uh that is the microbiome man
that [__] is fascinating you want to
talk about something I I have to stop
myself from putting on the 25 list and
and I might one day just because the the
connection between your gut and your
brain is so powerful you just can't get
your mind where it needs to be all right
uh
Nathaniel Nathaniel
Rarity
man oh that's as close as I'm gonna get
all right when are you coming to
Indonesia uh I need to share a lot of
things I have no plans to come to
Indonesia yet I would love to have a
reason to go to Indonesia you can
certainly share here I know this can be
uh very
um nerve-wracking to share something
vulnerable you can also DM me that may
be a way to get something across a
little easier than me coming all the way
to Indonesia next question Avi ad you've
talked about depression and the
indisputable benefits of exercise
there's also research building on the
therapeutic use of psychedelics do you
have any experience with any so I'm
super intrigued by what's going on in
the areas of psychedelic research on
that and if you read Jamie wheel and
Stephen Cutler's book stealing fire they
go into that really intriguing and I'll
be watching very closely over the next
several years I've never experimented
with psychedelics because I am a chicken
there's no reason and other than that
I'm just afraid that something will
happen and I guess my identity for so
long has been that of the guy that
doesn't do drugs
um and yeah so I drink occasionally
alcohol and my wife is
um
gotten me to try weed I think three or
four times ah it's just not my bag man
so anyway it's funny though that I still
consider myself the guy that doesn't do
drugs even though I drink occasionally
and I have smoked weed a few times and
that Likens back to Dan ariely's whole
thing about people will
he says in the context of lying people
will lie
um right up to the point where it forces
them to change their identity and that's
where they stop and so I guess I do the
exact amount of drugs that I can do and
still feel like I'm a guy that doesn't
do drugs to be consistent with my
identity uh fascinating the way the
human mind works so I can't help you
with psychedelics but find it very very
intriguing
um and honestly it's one of those things
the more data that comes out like I
might have to try it if for no other
reason than to see if it has an impact
on my anxiety which would be utterly
fascinating all right
um akalan Ananda sivam wow I want to
hear that said well hi Tom I'm a music
composer studying composition and
writing music for advertisements and
soundtracks for short films how do you
recommend I build relationships with
agencies to receive more scoring work as
well as promote myself through Snap as
it's a closed platform let me know if
you can thanks all right dude being in
the game of creating music right now in
this day and age is unbelievable so
right now my friend there are hundreds
if not more motivational accounts
they're so desperate for music
and I'll count us in that so every week
we put out impact quotes we have to find
music somewhere somehow that we're not
going to get a copyright flag for using
if you write Amazing Music there are so
many people that would desperately want
to get a hold of that music write
something for them give them you don't
even have to give them exclusive rights
just let them use it if you let them use
it they will tag the life out of you so
you get a tag you start finding big
accounts and you can write really
powerful music remember this all comes
down
it's how good are you really so you
actually have to be good so I'm I'm
basing this all on the desperate hope
that you don't just think you're
talented that you're actually talented
but if you're actually talented my
friend in this day and age with social
media with YouTube
people are
desperate for music desperate so go
forth and prosper you should be pinging
them all every morning you should start
with hours of Outreach telling people
that you write music and that you want
to give them music they'll flip out
they will flip out
all right Chris good what's your
thoughts on the best ways to overcome
the apathy or lack of drive when it
comes to depression in order to get the
momentum you need to start making
progress again okay depends on where on
the depressive Spectrum you fall so I'm
going to say that you're all the way
over here like catastrophic can't get
out I've been in it for a year or more
like this is just bad news I don't want
to get out of bed nothing all right that
is a brain chemistry imbalance it is
also almost certainly tied to your gut
so the first thing I would do I'm not
bullshitting you the first thing I would
do is read the gut brain connection is
the name of the book that talks about
the two-way communication the
neurotransmitters that are signaled and
received the fact that I think it's 70
no it's 95 of the serotonin in your body
is stored in your gut
anybody else hearing that 95 it's not
all made there but 95 of the serotonin
one of the things that makes you feel
good elevates your mood in fact ssris
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor
it basically stops your serotonin from
being re-metabolized so serotonin is the
name of the game when it comes to
depression 95 of it is stored in your
gut so if your gut is [__] up you can
imagine that your serotonin levels are
in real danger so that is something that
you really have to just become an expert
in so doing the hard work unlike the the
chemistry of your problem I bet you
thought I was going to say start with
positive thoughts or some stuff which
you do want to do but those are they
have to be in addition I don't think
you're going to think your way out of
clinical depression so you're gonna have
to get way more hardcore about
identifying the chemical imbalance that
you have getting the neurotransmitters
right ideally without drug intervention
but if you need it use it 100 percent
that is way better than not doing
anything but anytime you're taking
taking an exogenous Source you should be
trying as rapidly as you can to get off
of it now let me tell you if I needed
drugs I would use drugs I'm just saying
it's not the greatest long-term strategy
so
um move away from it if you can
all right uh questions from Barry Hannah
you have had the chance to sit down with
some amazingly impactful individuals
both with impact Theory and inside Quest
how do you feel impact who do you feel
impacted you the most how has this
impacted your business and personal life
the most
what is up my friend Tom bilyu here and
I have a big question to ask you how
would you rate your level of personal
discipline on a scale of one to ten if
your answer is anything less than a ten
I've got something cool for you and let
me tell you right now discipline by its
very nature means compelling yourself to
do difficult things that are stressful
boring which is what kills most people
or possibly scary or even painful now
here is the thing achieving huge goals
and stretching to reach your potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring building your levels of personal
discipline is not easy but let me tell
you it pays off in fact I will tell you
you're never going to achieve anything
meaningful unless you develop discipline
all right I've just released a class
from Impact Theory university called how
to build Ironclad discipline that
teaches you the process of building
yourself up in this area so that you can
push yourself to do the hard things that
greatness is going to require of you
right click the link on the screen
register for this class right now and
let's get to work I will see you inside
this Workshop from Impact Theory
University until then my friends be
legendary peace out
he's my favorite
so you were saying Goggins right
he's my favorite and he had a big impact
on me
but that's really about suffering
and the honest answer is Tim Ferriss
but he impacted me with his book
and I don't think people know how much
that book
changed the course of my life I read the
four hour work week and it made me see
Marketing in a whole new way and that
whole new way ended up becoming Quest
Nutrition I was looking for my thousand
screaming fans which is he got from
Kevin Kelly I think but I read about it
in Tim Ferriss
um never checking my email I got that
from the four hour work week and what
that is done to my the demands of me to
always control my own company and where
I'm going and not let not be reactive to
other people but to have a plan and to
be disciplined in my execution against
it
um all of that is
critically important so it wasn't from
the interview but him and Tony Robbins
probably have had the biggest impact on
my life and as they've both been guests
so the person that in real time maybe
had the biggest impact on me actually
two people and one of these is going to
surprise me so Goggins yes
um and then the other was Blake Leeper
and Blake Liebert changed this show and
if it wasn't for him it was somebody
back at inside Quest at inside Quest we
were in our formative years we didn't
really know what the show was I thought
it was going to be all business all the
time I didn't want people who hadn't
like accomplished just crazy things in
their life and they were pitching this
kid really hard who was like trying to
make a comeback like he'd been gotten in
trouble for drinking and then he
um got like kicked out of a competition
or something because he tested positive
for cocaine and they're like but he's a
double amputee and he can run and I was
just like
God is where does this go
and they the brilliant people behind the
show Christopher Courtney Lisa and I'll
just assume Casey was in on it as well
they were just like you really have to
give this guy a shot
and so I did it and halfway through the
interview
I realized this this his human interest
story his overcoming the obstacles his
imperfections his willingness to be raw
and vulnerable and my
um willingness to reciprocate and and go
there with him is the show at its finest
and so then it was like oh my God you
guys are so right like we need more
guests like this and that really became
the new paradigm for the show all right
that feels a little indulgent there's
not a lot you guys can take away from
that so I'll move on
um Carolina Wilk asks what do you think
about the law of attraction it's 50
awesome and 50 total [__] so the 50
that is awesome is you get what you
focus on and so if you're thinking about
I can make these positive things happen
I can do this
um it's going to give you the sense of
confidence and belief that allows you to
take that first step that first step is
everything the part that's total
[__] is
um I can will a parking spot I still
can't believe that was actually an
example they gave I can will a parking
spot into existence
it's called waiting around long enough
till somebody in a parking spot that you
want leaves like
so anything that inspires people to not
take action to just sit there and think
about something that that winds me up so
Massive Action is the only thing that
works so if
you're thinking about positive things
all the things that you want to make
come true all of that and it's forcing
you to take Massive Action you're going
out and you're executing you believe
that you can do it you focus on that you
can do it and then you actually learn
the skills acquired ah and go and
execute then that's [__] amazing so
when I watch the secret I loved it and I
just shut off my brain to the parts that
I thought were Madness which by the way
is a very good technique don't throw the
baby out with the bathwater just because
half of it doesn't make any [__]
sense doesn't mean that the other half
isn't amazing so use what makes sense
discard what doesn't that's how you
become a unique person all right
next up uh Miriam tufani how do you deal
with disappointments along the way when
you've started a new business
Okay so
this one for me the thing that I use to
combat
disappointment disappointments is
twofold one I believe I can learn
anything so the failure the
disappointment okay what did I learn
what can I do better next time
um and then also I'm viewing myself on a
very long timeline so I'm messing up uh
I have failed I missed a huge
opportunity let's say and there's an
awesome quote from Jim Carrey he said
until
you have had somebody come up to you and
say hey there's so and so out in the
audience tonight and they're they're
make or break if you do well tonight
you're gonna make it if you do poorly
tonight it's never gonna happen for you
he said until you [__] that up five
times you haven't even started yet and I
loved that so much because people are
gonna think oh my God it's all riding on
this one thing
[__] no NBA career rides on any one
shot never rides on any one game it
doesn't even ride on any one
championship series at the end of the
day is about showing up consistently day
after day month after month year after
year decade after decade relentlessly
acquiring skills relentlessly learning
from your mistakes so that all of this
is adding up to something so
I'm on Joe Rogan today that interview
goes so many [__] weird places and it
was really fun because
on many of them not all of them but on
many of them like yeah I've thought a
lot about this I've read about this I've
oh wow like here's a topic I never
thought we were going to talk about but
I can go there because I've been out of
just a desire to learn I've been reading
about a lot of different topics to find
out which one stick which ones are
exciting for me which ones really add up
to something that's usable so when you
take yourself over a long timeline and
you just repeat these behaviors over and
over and over and over like the
obstacles they fade into the distance it
just becomes one more learning
experience and when you remember that
all of life is but practice and nothing
is ever performance there is no big day
there's only one more time to practice
dealing under a high stress situation or
under the bright lights like whatever
the case may be but when you know this
is just one more opportunity to practice
and I will get another opportunity again
because I'm willing to get great
I want everyone to listen to the
following words
these words are oft repeated and so they
become cliche
and so people stop to hear the real
power in the words
if you want to be successful
there is one path
get so good they can't ignore you
if they can ignore you you have not yet
gotten good enough
and once you just accept that [__]
hard core truth that if they can ignore
you you have not yet gotten good enough
go watch dragon the Bruce Lee Story
that that is an awesome [__] tale of
a guy who got so [__] good they could
not ignore him they wanted to at every
turn the amount of racism that that guy
ran into is [__] insane he created
um the show oh God what's it called
where he's the Hmong traveling land
grasshopper
kung fu
he created Kung Fu
about himself
a Chinese man it was played by a [__]
white guy
I've got to imagine that was very
troubling for him but did he just flip
out shut down and say this is unfair no
he kept getting better and he started
making movies [__] him if they won't let
me on TV then I'm gonna make movies and
I'm gonna make martial arts films that
are unlike anything else anyone has seen
he used to take challengers in um
martial arts competitions he would get
in the ring and say hey anybody want to
fight if you want to fight come in right
now I will fight you and just to show
people I'm the best [__] martial
artist there's no one else that can
touch me and because he was that good
he went as far as he went
you got to get so good people can't
ignore you all right that's when I can
just [__] keep going about all right
uh Jimmy Allen and by the way I saw a
minute ago somebody doing a driving
symbol are we running out of time
well so we can add them all to the
24-hour thing 24 hour live coming to you
live next Wednesday so the reason that
we're doing the live by the way is we
are about to cross over to 100 000 likes
on Facebook and to show my deep and
unending gratitude to this amazing
do you guys know how different you are
than most communities this is [__]
crazy the only advice anyone ever gives
people don't read the comments don't
read the comments don't read the
comments
when I need to be cheered up I read the
comments you guys are so supportive of
each other you're so supportive of the
show you're so supportive of me and the
ideas that we're trying to get out there
it's unbelievable I am deeply grateful I
feel compelled to do an active service
and so as a thank you and a sincere sign
of my appreciation for 24 hours I will
not sleep I will not do anything but
bring you entertaining information that
you can use we're going to have a bunch
of guests we're going to have new shows
that we've never done before we're going
to do live versions of shows that you're
used to we're going to do super intimate
q and A's and I will answer every single
no matter how long I have to stay up
we'll answer every single question that
gets submitted by 6am on the 24th so
only reason that I'm capping it there is
I don't want to be trolled that's the
truth so as long as it's submitted by 6
a.m
um I will answer every single question
in that 24 hour period so
um
join me it's going to be very special I
know some of the team here is going to
stay up even though they don't have to
to be a part of it
God I love them for that uh this team is
unreal they're unbelievable I want to
hug the ones that like to be hugged
which we broke down doing the Captivate
research and uh wave at the ones that
don't uh yeah it's amazing I'm insanely
grateful so I asked that we're doing a
live event tonight otherwise I would
just stay here until all questions were
answered this is amazing how many
questions you guys are submitting I'm
really grateful for that as well if
you're in the LA area
we are going tonight 7 P.M Boom Town
Boom Town confirmation please
Boom Town Brewery going to Boom Town
Brewery I will be answering questions
live and In the Flesh I will stay until
they kick us out and then I'll answer
questions out in the parking lot if I
have to but I will stay until every
question has been answered no matter how
long it takes
um so meet me Boom Town brewery Downtown
Los Angeles tonight at 7 p.m and so how
long do I have right now to answer
questions before we have to leave and I
need like a 15 minute buffer
uh
so probably like five Okay so we've got
about five minutes left all right so
Jimmy Allen I forever have been an
extremely ambitious person the pr the
past months I've been attacking as many
podcast books and everything from
yourself and suggested people I have now
become an extremely habitual person and
the changes have been dramatic I own a
successful business that I devote
everything to how do I balance my home
work life more efficiently my partner
and I are extremely happy but I can't
help feel her life is on hold so I
achieve my goals thank you for the
person you are wow thank you that's very
kind
okay
um
there is no Universal answer to this so
the truth is I have no interest in
Balance none whatsoever so one of the
reasons that I don't want to have kids
is I don't want something pulling from
my attention so the reason that my wife
and I founded the company together was
the more we became ourselves and pursued
our goals we wanted that to be driving
us together we wanted to be sharing
things we wanted to automatically know
what the other person is doing just
because we're so entrenched we're so in
it together we're building something
side by side so that is how we have
found what my wife calls Harmony which
she got from
um Lisa Nichols very amazing and
talented Lisa Nichols I don't seek
balance I seek Harmony
um so that's something to really think
about at the end of the day you should
be trying to live the life that makes
you feel most alive and finding the way
to engage your partner in that is very
important and I love how thoughtful
you're being about your partner and that
you're thinking about her that's uh uh
that is a great sign that great things
lay ahead for you you guys need to find
what that way is for her to get the time
that she needs it's going to start with
communication ask her flat out like what
do you need is it
um if like half of Saturday is just you
and me nothing else no phones no email
no matter what like that is our time and
there are going to be some awesome
moments where something in your company
is burning to the ground
and you're going to show her that she's
more important that that half of
Saturday is you and her and you're going
to ignore it and you're going to wait
until the end
so moments like that I think is
just very very important to figure out
what those important things are okay
time for one more
um
this is from Audrey Sutherland how can I
have a good relationship with my boss
you're gonna have to know a lot about
your boss
you're going to have to figure out what
it is that makes your boss tick what's
their communication style what is their
um their value system literally read
Captivate it will really help you what's
their ocean score so that you understand
how they perceive the world you
understand the things that mean
something to them so that you can
communicate in their language and then
at the end of the day like if you know
what they want you've had them lay it
out you know exactly what they expect
you know what their language is how to
communicate back then it's about just an
obscene level of performance for your
own Reasons by the way don't do it to
impress your boss do it because you want
to be a linchpin do it because that
makes you feel good for yourself do it
because that level of skill that ability
to play at that level is marketable you
can go anywhere but I find that
one and some of this does depend is your
boss
um insecure or they've gotten to a good
place in their life
um if they're insecure then
unfortunately things like flattery can
go a very long way and there's some very
distressing studies about how even when
somebody knows that the flattery is
insincere that they still like it so
understanding that if there's politics
in your company figuring those out what
are ways you can make your boss look
good helping other people shine is
always a pretty great way to get ahead
but if I had to boil it back to
everything that's Universal
communication understanding their
communication style understanding their
values and really getting absolute
Clarity with what they want and then
deliver on that and surpass all
expectations in this next clip I
discussed the difference between belief
and delusion all right first question
without further Ado is from plastic
funnel that's quite the name is your
answer to coping with the feeling of
being a fraud
uh in your answer that makes a lot more
sense in your answer to coping with the
feeling of being a fraud you sound like
a madman and you're hunger to learn on a
long on a long enough timeline you will
win but where do you draw the line
between a self-reinforced delusion that
is strategically useful and not useful
it's a great question
um so this is something that you have to
get really good at being able to hold
two competing ideas in your head at the
same time being able to feel like I
really have this I've got it I know what
I'm doing I'm moving forward full steam
ahead
and checking yourself and making sure
that that confidence isn't spilling over
into destructive delusion I won't even
say to monitor it just to make sure that
it's not spilling over into delusion
because almost certainly if you've never
done something before to believe that
you can is pure delusion to believe you
can learn on the other hand is not but
that's where you've got to have that
balance you've really got to believe
that you're going to pull this off
you're going to figure it out that
somehow some way that you're going to be
the one that figures out when nobody
else could figure out and I'll say that
really is delusional statistically
speaking certainly and you have to then
check that against okay where where is
the the borders of usability here it's
good that I'm thinking like that it's
good that I have the energy it's good
and this is the most important part that
I have the willingness to act decisively
which is where most people fall down but
you really do have to then check
yourself and say okay where are my
points of weakness and what I find is a
lot of times what you need over here on
the I can do this side is a quiet
self-belief that's inside you you don't
have to trumpet that a lot but you need
that quiet self-belief what you need to
get other people rallied around you is
they need to see decisiveness they need
to see certainty there is so much
intoxication to certainty so now we've
got those things we believe in ourselves
our ability to learn and adapt cool our
team believes that we that we believe we
know what we're doing awesome and they
can get excited by that certainty the
clarity of vision they know exactly how
to execute there's no ambiguity there's
no confusion those are the things that
kill teams then on the other hand we
have an ability to very clearly
articulate to ourselves if nobody else
but oftentimes I do involve the team on
this
to articulate to ourselves what our
weakest points are and what the parts in
the puzzle that we're trying to solve
for now the reason I'm able to involve
the team in that is because they can see
that I'm not wavering on my certainty of
what to do so I'm saying do this go here
talk to this person say this get that
think about it like this then over here
I can say okay and now we're going to
flip it over we're going to look at the
underbelly of the strategy and see if
we're actually right and I'll walk
people through my logic now this is
where if your logic isn't sound your
team is going to revolt so my thing is
by the time I'm talking to the team and
certainly by the time that I'm revealing
my soft underbelly I have thought about
this so much that I really really have
the issue conceptualized and as long as
there's a logical through line in my
plan that the team can hold on to
they'll go okay I dig it his logic makes
sense and the punchline of his logic is
go do this for now we're going to
revisit it we're going to come check
back so there's a cell phone awareness
in the process of knowing I could be
wrong I'm always going to be checking
myself I'm going to be looking to see if
those things that I'm telling team to go
do if they're actually
revealing or giving us results or not
and if they're not then we're going to
adjust strategy and because I've told
everybody where we're at but I've kept
everybody focused with the certainty the
clarity the decisiveness then other
voices can be heard we're constantly
looking and checking at that but this
process of doing what they call Red Team
blue team where you're actively trying
to pick holes in your the way your plan
what you're actually executing
those voices have been in the mix they
feel like they're being heard and that's
another critical part to keeping the
team going okay so there it is all right
Ray paulus how do you limit yourself
especially to New Opportunities
oftentimes they get overloaded with the
responsibility of each new opportunity
okay 80 of business is knowing what not
to do that's the really hard part
most people
have no dearth of opportunities and I
think that that has certainly been true
in my life I think that that's certainly
true for most people the real hard part
is being in that room with a thousand
doors and knowing which doors to close
so you have to get really good at
creating certainty at being decisive at
being willing to take a step and when it
comes to that honestly the thing that
I've noticed most is just a willingness
I'm trying to survive
the tail end of an illness here
the willingness to make a decision even
when you don't have all the information
that's really where we separate the
people that go on to win from the people
that just stand still because remember
the most data Rich information stream is
action whether that action is a win or a
loss
is somewhat irrelevant the whole point
is you have to be moving forward you
have to be acting decisively because
that gives you that data Rich
information stream
most people are so terrified to make a
mistake they're so paralyzed by
indecision because they don't know which
is right that they never make a decision
they never hit that data Rich stream and
they don't learn very fast and so they
move 10 times 20 times
100 times more slowly
than the next person who's willing to
act who's willing to make mistakes who's
not afraid to look stupid so that's the
key
as I'm sure you've heard said the only
thing we have to fear is fear itself
I will modify that and say the only
thing that we have to fear is indecision
man this cough is like really messing
with me
all right I had to give a talk today at
Google
and for the first like
10 minutes I sounded just like this like
I'm dying and then it wears off so
let me just bear with me I'll make sure
I give you nuggets of gold
yeah Conor is gonna hate his job today
all right
next question David beer I have a
question about how you research people
you
God
you mentioned how deep you go
understanding their world but how deep
do you really go specifically what is
your step-by-step
process I'm laughing at myself here
and how much time do you spend on it
all right so I really do go deep and I
spend probably average 10 to 12 hours on
a main episode guest
that's reading their book it's watching
all of their videos
hmm
and
doing all of that the key thing that I
do and this is where there's really two
things that I do that I think really
separate my style
number one I follow my Fascinations and
oftentimes my Fascination will lead me
to look up something really obscure
and in doing that I stumble upon
oftentimes like a real piece of humanity
and that's where people really really
end up connecting with the guests and
certainly that's where the guest ends up
connecting with me
and don't underestimate the power of the
guests connecting with me and then being
willing to lower their guard and that's
why a lot of times people say that I get
something out of people that other
people don't because the guest feels
very safe and that that's a really
critical part of my interview Style
so
um
one example of this was with Seth Godin
and I came across this tidbit where he
said
I once cried when
um Leonard Nimoy died
and I thought whoa that's so weird like
what would make him cry about that what
is that and so going down that rabbit
hole and trying to figure out what his
relationship is reading some of his blog
articles around that around characters
narration the difference between Star
Wars and
[Music]
um
and Star Trek
and you really start to get an
understanding of where he might go
now I don't always live by the following
Maxim but this may be one of the most
important
um things
if you're trying to copy my interview
Style
one of the most important things to know
is I try never to ask a question to
which I don't already know the answer
now hopefully it doesn't feel that way
hopefully it feels very spontaneous on
set
but the reality is I'm trying to take
the interview somewhere and
when it's something that really
fascinates me I want to understand why
they say that and the reason I
understand why they've said the saying
that fascinates me the reason I need to
understand that excuse me
is because I need to know if their
answer is going to be valuable to you
the audience that's that's huge right my
obligation is to you guys my obligation
is to figure out how do I take this
person somewhere where they a haven't
already said this that thing a thousand
times and then B that when you hear this
new piece of information that they have
that you're actually going to be
interested so I'm always looking for
things that you guys can adapt into your
own life
and whenever something is an operational
level belief system then I'm really
excited so
in a nutshell those are the things that
I'm really trying to do I'm trying to
follow my own Fascination to make sure
that I'm really interested in what
they're saying so that I can be super
authentic on set that they will feel
that they will feel really heard and
understood
Connor you're gonna have to cut all
these out man
it's just getting [__] crazy
not yet
um so I want them to feel heard and
understood I want there to be a real
connection I want to be going a layer
deeper than anybody else
and I want to know I know how they're
going to answer that question so that I
can follow it up with another question
or if they say something
um and it takes us into new territory
maybe even my response catches me off
guard on set to something they say and
now we go somewhere new
um then I know how to bring it back
because I know all the areas that I want
to touch on because I really have a 360
degree view of the person all right so I
think that's enough on that Jenna
Robinson I'm currently reading Mastery
and there's a part where Robert Greene
says in your 20s you should go through
an apprenticeship phase does this
contradict your idea of having a super
specific goal where you can map out
every zigzag how would you do that when
you're in this experimental phase of
your life when you're trying to figure
out what career you want
so it doesn't contradict it there are
just different parts of your life
different times in your life
and the one of the most powerful parts
of the Mastery phase is that you've I
really identified what you want to do
and once you've identified what you want
to do going and working with the master
is one of the ways to really rapidly
gain the skills you need so there's two
parts there's the exploratory phase
where you're not sure what you want to
do and I wouldn't try to prematurely
optimize by going down the path of a
gaining Mastery I would just try to
experience a lot of things I would play
with them I would dabble and see which
one really strikes your fancy once you
know which one really strikes your fancy
you're super interested that's the path
you want to go down
you maybe even begun going down the
process of getting Mastery already and
you realize I love this I love this
enough to put in the work I believe in
what it's going to bring to me in terms
of what mission it's going to allow me
to accomplish then
you go and engage with the master and
you pour yourself into that study and
working with them and in doing so
they're going to shorten your learning
curve which is incredibly incredibly
powerful so spending your 20s in that
phase if you've already gotten to the
point where you know that's what you
want to do then that's amazing
invitation to your 30s so be it but
before you start optimizing which is
what you're doing with the master you
want to make sure that you first know
that that really is the area that you
want to go down all right
Day Day many people do not execute on
their goals because they lack a Clear
Vision of all of their Pathways to
success how did you go about finding
options C and D instead of just choosing
a and b
um it's not really how I think about it
if I'm honest so what I do is I play a
game called No [__] what would it
take and I try to work backwards from
success and I say that I'm working
backwards in a slightly different way
than I normally mean it what I'm talking
about is I find a path where anybody you
tell would be like yeah well 100 that
would work no one would do it it's crazy
it's not technologically feasible
whatever thing they say then after that
but yes if you could do that that would
work like if I said you had to commute
um
you know 20 miles in LA and you had to
do it in less than 30 minutes at rush
hour well what would you do you would
have to fly in a helicopter everybody
would say yep
that would work you can't afford it
but that would work and then you can
work backwards from there and you see
people doing things like building drones
now they carry a single person they
worked with the FAA to actually get them
legal so
that's how something like that is really
going to work is somebody started from
well I know what success looks like now
it becomes how do we make a feasible
version of that rather than what most
people do which is Think of where they
are today and think how impossible it
would be to get there in their car they
first started a car and then they
started thinking maybe they would do a
motorcycle okay that's working from
failure and trying to work forward
instead work from success something you
know guaranteed home run it works and
then look at what are the things that
stand in your way
and if some of the things that stand in
your way in the case of a helicopter
cost
then it becomes a question of can you
reduce the cost of that method so we
talked about this before we started
Quest how would we end metabolic disease
well we knew if we could make food that
people chose based on taste and it
happened to be good for them then it
would work because we'd be leveraging
people's own behaviors against them
their desire to eat hyperpolatable Foods
packaged convenienced well-marketed all
that stuff that's what's driving eating
Behavior so if we could take advantage
of that and then just slide in something
that was actually good for you then we
really had a shot
doing the same thing here at impact
Theory I know to get the average person
to adopt an empowering belief system it
has to come in the form of entertainment
has to be somewhat invisible it's got to
be baked into the cultural subconscious
and that over time people just begin to
think like that so
um that's why we're doing it that way so
more than I'm you know I'm thinking uh
oh here's path number one I'm thinking
what's the most real
um
what's the most realistic plausible path
and then does it meet other criteria can
it be monetized am I going to have fun
am I passionate about both the path and
the goal so all of those things play
into it as well
all right
Josh moranian
I realize that I don't have a super
specific goal but I have a clear vision
of what my goal looks like I know I am
going to be leading a team company in an
industry I'm passionate about my
question is how can I specify my goal
without limiting my past to get where I
want in my career
how can I specify my goal without
limiting my paths
yeah so the the problem is you don't
actually know what your goal looks like
so this is the the
quintessential question I get asked is
somebody who says that they have a clear
vision of their goal but then what they
describe is something as super vague as
I know I'm going to be leading a team
company in an industry that I'm
passionate about okay please understand
that is a hopelessly vague statement
like that is vague in the most
aggressive way possible
and it's the vagaries of that that then
create the problem so because you don't
know what to execute against you don't
know what kind of products to make you
don't know who your consumers are so
when doing a business we're doing
anything in life you you really have to
get down to the level of just absolutely
ridiculous hyper specificity so the
example that I always use is of the
Olympics the uh the goal that you have
is as vague is saying I want to win a
gold medal so first of all you want to
win a gold medal in what the Olympics
okay cool you want to win an Olympic
gold medal winter or summer okay summer
tennis
swimming like what is it swimming okay
great do you want to do the breaststroke
do you want to do the medley like what
exactly is it until you know the very
specific event in the sport in the games
that you want to play you're not going
to know how you should train and at the
end of the day it's the training it's
the acquisition of skills that's really
what you're trying to get down to that's
why you need the hyper degree of
specificity because without that you
can't a drive forward you can't acquire
the right skills and B if you don't know
exactly where you're going then you'll
never know if you're making progress so
when you have a goal that's super vague
like I want to drive around in my car
okay great like you're driving around in
your car now what you don't know whether
you're going in the right direction you
don't know if you're making any progress
so you really have to pin this stuff
down to a just an insanely clear and
specific Place once you have that then
you'll know what you should be training
in and whether or not you're making
progress
Stephen schrembeck
I've been working on Ray dalio's radical
truth principle for two months now but
radical transparency is a huge hurdle
how do I practice radical transparency
without pissing off everyone in my life
who doesn't get it do I need to ask
permission to be honest is that good
enough I will say that this is near
impossible to do with everyone in your
life if people don't buy into it it is
absolutely not going to work one Ray
dalio's principles is written within the
context of people who have agreed to be
a part of a team so whether it's at a
job I think you can get people to agree
there if it's in your immediate family
you can get people to agree there but
once it starts going farther than that
like unless you have a soccer team or
something where you can actually get
people to come together you can present
the idea and see if they buy into it
it's pretty hard to abide by Ray dalio's
principles without people actually
buying into that so that's first and
foremost it's got to be applied to a
group that will actually buy into it it
really won't work it'll be totally
dysfunctional for you to just try to do
it now you can live your life by
principles and you can be read radically
honest and transparent about yourself
you can even decide that you want to be
radically transparent with other people
and you can train them to only ask you
questions if they really want to know
the truth but what you've got to ask is
what do you hope to get out of that
because if people haven't bought in to
radical transparency you will come
across like a jerk it won't be read well
chances are they're going to diminish
the frequency with which they invite you
to be a part of their group but if
you're okay with that if it's not groups
that you want to be a part of if you
only want to be around people that are
living in principles then maybe that's
perfectly fine but you need to really
think through exactly what it is you're
trying to get
and I would say that ultimately Ray
dalio's principles are specifically for
people who are in a group that will all
Buy in
all right Mischief Co
I started an online business a year ago
and things were going really well
recently sales have dropped to the point
where I'm quickly eating my way into my
savings every month I don't know if I
should quit this business and start a
new one go back to a nine to five or
stick this out what advice do you have
for someone who's struggling with a
rough time in their business to me this
all comes down to none of those are
wrong answers so this all comes down to
what do you really want like what's your
identity what's your mission in life
what are you really trying to accomplish
so if that business is just a path on a
way to a bigger goal that you believe in
with all of your heart and soul then it
might be worth shutting that one down
and starting something new it might be
worth buckling down and figuring out
where you're going wrong using austerity
measures in your company cutting off
every ounce of fat getting super lean
figuring out what's happened in the
marketplace pivoting like finding that
solving that problem if you're not
emotionally hung up on the money and
having to step backwards financially
like if you can really hunker down and
solve that problem could be beautiful
maybe some of the most powerful lessons
that you'll learn in business on the
flip side if you've didn't notice the
changing in sales fast enough that
there's just a tsunami of debt on the
business or something and you can't get
out from under it then closing that
business down and starting something new
with the fresh knowledge maybe that's
the way to go but it really all comes
down to what exactly it is you're trying
to accomplish I know none of these are
easy and I know especially if you have
debt in the business or you took money
from friends and family or something
like that this can be incredibly
incredibly stressful I'm not downplaying
that but just make sure that you're
looking at yourself on a long time
Horizon that you're not judging yourself
through the lens of a moment and that
you know what your ultimate goal is and
so if this business is a failure but it
teaches you something that you needed in
order to actually get where you're
ultimately going and just to
differentiate like for instance with
impact Theory my mission is to pull
people out of the Matrix to give them an
empowering belief system I think the way
to do that is through social content and
traditional narrative content should I
find that that isn't right or that I'm
not good at it and that I'm not able to
do what I want from a business
perspective with those two paths and I
have to Pivot at some point and and do
it another way hey so be it I'll take my
losses I'll figure it out I'll regroup
and I'll move forward again but
that all comes down to me knowing where
I'm ultimately trying to go I'm not
ultimately trying to build the studio
that's a very fun way that I happen to
think is the right way but it's very
possible that over time I learned that
that's not true and that I have to Pivot
and do something different and it just
so happens that I'm more passionate
about the end result of pulling people
out of the Matrix than I am the struggle
of building a studio so building the
studio is only worth me risking my
fortune and all of that because I so
believe in what I think it's going to
let me do on a cultural subconscious
level embedding an empowering belief
system so if it didn't have that then I
wouldn't be doing it so
that's where that plays out so um none
of those are bad like going back and
taking a nine to five there's no reason
why you shouldn't like if that feels
awesome right now and you're like so
tired carrying all the responsibility on
your shoulders and it sounds awesome to
go find a company that you really
believe in they're really doing
something you're passionate about and
they're good people like go plug-in man
that's amazing this is a know thyself
moment and so just really take careful
assessment of what your
um
what your identity is what you want it
to be have compassion for yourself and
really plan for long-term fulfillment
don't worry about whether that business
was a win or a loss on a long enough
timeline it's just really not going to
matter
all right next up Ryan Jacobs hi Tom
you're doing an amazing job with the
show especially your communication
skills thank you how did you learn to
communicate so well were there any
certain books or people that helped you
learn how to use appropriate language
and effectively communicating
explanations or ideas to others
um first yes I mean I've just read so
many books it'd be impossible to list
them out here but you can find my top 27
now I think that it is at impact
theory.com head there and by the way
today's episode is brought to you by the
impact Theory logo shirt so head to
shop.impacttheory.com right now to pick
yours up and remind yourself through
self-signaling of what this whole
ecosystem and way of thinking is all
about but yeah a lot a lot a lot of
books like I said the 27 are there in
order that I think people should read
them beyond that just an insane amount
of practice and being willing to hear
feedback so I've been doing speech and
debate since I was like 14 years old
maybe 13 started in high school and just
really threw myself into that and you're
actually getting judged and critiqued
and you're getting feedback and from the
beginning
I just had to take that feedback and
then as I've gotten older as a leader
really accepting your losses accepting
things you really mess up allowing
yourself to hear from employees how you
could be doing it better just always
lowering your defenses lowering your ego
hearing the hard things being hungry to
adjust and grow and get better all of
that is super key so when you really
want to know the truth when you really
hunger to understand what you're doing
wrong how you could be doing something
better that's when you're really going
to start to win so make sure that you
actually want to know the truth because
the thing that you have just forced into
your life the thing that lights you on
fire emotionally is actual Improvement
when you're lit on fire by actual
Improvement and all your dopamine and
serotonin come rushing in as a result of
actual Improvement suddenly a hunger to
hear the truth even when it's harsh
that's how you get better just practice
practice practice all right Anonymous
how do you go about removing people from
your life who you feel are not in line
with your principles and lifestyle how
do you wean them out of your life
without being a total [__] about it
so my thing is honestly I just let space
happen naturally and space usually does
happen pretty naturally like everything
in your life if you want to build
something new don't focus on tearing
down the old old focus on building the
new so rather than worrying about
eliminating old friends from your
ecosystem focus on building new friends
into your ecosystem go spend time with
those guys fill your life with that with
awesome stuff and then it's up to you
like exactly what you want to tell
people Vanessa van Edwards says that she
thinks people should actually break up
with friends and actually have the
conversation to sit down with people and
just say look I think we're in different
places in our lives and I don't think
this friendship makes sense anymore that
never hit me well and I think she is
brilliant but this is one place where
she and I agree just seems super awkward
to me and unnecessary and maybe this is
a super dude thing but the friendships
in my life that have evolved into
something else I've just let them evolve
into something else the reason that I do
that is I never know man we could evolve
back in the same direction again and
having made some big thing about
breaking up with them just seems super
weird to me so I like leaving it open
and maybe we'll reconnect and plus
hopefully at least in the people in my
life the vast majority not all but the
vast majority of people still have love
for and so if we were to find Common
Ground again it'd be awesome so yeah I
just let time and space do its work
all right time for one more question
Daniel Breeze hey Tom did you hey Tom
you mentioned that you finally figured
out how to read while working out how so
the key for me on this is there's only
certain types of things that I can read
while I'm working off I need to be
taking a lot of notes I can't do it
um so it needs to be something like uh
when I'm reading for somebody coming on
the show because I read in swarms so I'm
not so worried about taking every little
detail in so if I'm doing a set and the
set's Really intense and I miss you know
10 or 15 seconds of the book not a big
deal because I'm going to listen to
eight videos or you know 15 videos on
them talking about the book anyway so
I'm going to get that information from a
thousand different angles so it's
basically anything that I can read
podcast work for this where it's like
it's a flowy conversation so as long as
you're getting say 80 you're getting
most of what you want to get versus what
I'm really trying to read like raid
Elio's principles I would never read at
a first pass while working out it's just
two and information dense and I want to
take notes and you know I want to make
sure that I'm really focused on it and
really writing things down so it really
comes down to things like biographies
where it's not like I'm taking a lot of
notes per page or when I'm prepping for
somebody and thusly I'm reading in
swarms or when I'm
um listening to a podcast which is more
conversational all right there you have
it all right guys thank you so much for
joining me for today's episode forgive
me the beginning of this was really
weird Cadence because I was coughing to
death hopefully we were able to edit a
lot of that out I'm at the tail end of a
really weird sickness that's been sort
of light emotionally hasn't been super
destructive but come with some pretty
heinous coughing so
nonetheless thank you for joining me
again I'm traveling uh this Friday which
is why we had to do this now if there
are any comic book fans that are
interested in what we're doing it is
[__] heating up over here in the
comic book side I'm super stoked we're
about to sign our first writer very
amped gonna be making an announcement
about the first book in July dropping in
in October it's all going to be good
stuff revealing the celebrity that's
involved all of it gotta be amazing uh
so if you're going to be in Chicago at
the Comic Con be sure to uh hit me with
a DM ping me be great to connect all
right guys if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary take care
click on this episode here to learn how
to become 50.2 times better at anything
what is up everybody we're going to talk
about how to hone in on the things that
are going to make you way more powerful
now the key is you cannot let yourself
get sucked into bad habits that will be